# AN ALTERNATIVE TO A RESTRICTIVE PAIN CHART 

## PROJECT DESCRIPTION

This project reimagines the pain chart commenly used in US medical institutions to bridge the gap between the patients' experience of their pain and symptomps and their description of it. 

This project was inspired by research and personal experience showing that Black and people of color, particularly darkskinned people have their pain and symptomps dismissed in medical settings. In my research, I found numerous guides on how to speak to doctors so that your pain is taken seriously. However, I am more interested in exploring how people naturally describe thir pain and how this influences our perception of pain and illness. 

This project interrogates how we are expected to talk about our pain versus how we actually talk about it. What impact does this have on our understanding and percievement of pain, and it is possible to create a better, more relatable pain chart. 

## Scraping the data

To gather real-life descriptions of people's pain, I scraped data from various subreddits focused on pain and treatments. Some of these communities are decicated to specific issues like back pain or knee pain , while others cater to people living with migraines or chronic illnesses and pain in any form. 
The dataset used for finetuning was originally created for the course, AI for Media. 
It was generated by webscraping with Reddit's API praw. All information in the dataset is completely anonymous and cannot be traced back to individual users. 

## DISTILGPT2 & STABLE DIFFUSION 

The scraped statements were used to finetune a finetuned distilgpt2 model from here: https://huggingface.co/distilgpt2
The finetuned model generated prompts used to generate images by the stable diffusion model. Demo model from: https://github.com/kjsman/stable-diffusion-pytorch 

